I'm here today with my new friend Riley
who's going to help us check out a new
website called dognition that for 60
bucks will help you assess your dog's
intelligence the basic premise here is
not so much that they're smart dogs and
dumb dogs although there's probably some
truth to that the idea is that different
dogs use different cognitive strategies
to help them solve problems so this was
based on research by Brian hare who's a
cognitive neuroscientist at Duke
University and we wanted to try to get a
sense of whether this can actually work
with regular people who aren't
scientists and regular dogs like Riley
here so here we go
okay so we have some results here from
dognition on Riley and the test we did
with him unfortunately we couldn't get
through the complete battery of tests
because we didn't have access to the to
the website but based on the things that
we did do we have some preliminary
results suggesting that Riley is an
independent problem solver and that's
because in the experiment where his
owner put a piece of food under one cup
and pointed to the other cup Riley said
forget you ignored his owner went to
where he knew the food was so he relied
on his own memory instead of his owner
with cupcake here cupcakes a puppy and
he had a tendency to wander off a little
bit and get distracted and different
dogs apparently do this differently some
rely more on their owners for solving
problems others prefer to just solve it
their own way so there you have it Riley
is a free-thinking canine